# Jakarta Heat Risk App

This repository contains the source code to build Python-based web application which is intended to show information about heat index and risk for every single ward (kelurahan) in the Jakarta province. The weather forecast data which includes temperature, humidity, sky condition, and wind speed and direction are available for each ward and are provided by Badan Meteorologi, Klimatologi, dan Geofisika (BMKG) through public API described in [Data Terbuka BMKG](https://data.bmkg.go.id/prakiraan-cuaca/).

This project was inspired by the tropical condition of Jakarta. Average daytime temperature for downtown Jakarta of about $32\degree$ Celcius ([measurements from 1991 to 2000](https://web.archive.org/web/20231019195817/https://www.nodc.noaa.gov/archive/arc0216/0253808/1.1/data/0-data/Region-5-WMO-Normals-9120/Indonesia/CSV/StasiunMeteorologiKemayoran_96745.csv)) and at a fairly consistent value throughout the year makes its population susceptible to some level of heat risks. This is worsen by the climate change that is getting severe for the past several years, with multiple heat waves reported across the globe (see [here](https://wmo.int/news/media-centre/rising-temperatures-and-extreme-weather-hit-asia-hard) for example). Based on the [U.S. National Weather Service](https://www.weather.gov/ama/heatindex#:~:text=Table_title:%20What%20is%20the%20heat%20index?%20Table_content:,the%20body:%20Heat%20stroke%20highly%20likely%20%7C), temperatures just above $32\degree$ Celcius can start to induce some negative effects on human body such as heat exhaustion, heat cramps, and even heat stroke from prolonged exposure. With many Jakartans working outside, for example as *ojol*, street vendors, or just being stuck in traffic under the scorching sunlight, the risk of these complications may be even greater than realized. 

However, as someone who lived in Jakarta for over 20 years, the government's effort to spread awareness to this ever-urgent problem seems to be in the minimum. It is very hard to get a grasp towards understanding how dangerous it actually is to walk, commute, or work under direct exposure of sunlight for an extended amount of time in Jakarta, simply because the lack of public awareness or outreach campaign about heat risk from the government that you can easily see on the streets or even internet, this at least as far as my experience. After all, even if there was aggressive heat risk campaign, if I am working as an *ojol* for example, what can I do? Sometimes, for most poeple, it is not about whether you are aware about it or not, but rather about whether you have the choice to avoid it or not.

Recognizing these realities, the first step we can do is to simply provide people with accessible information about heat risk in their daily environment. Making a simple tool that indicates the level of heat risk at a given time and location will allow people to better understand when conditions become dangerous. Although such information cannot, perhaps, eliminate the constraints faced by many workers like I mentioned, it can still help them, and of course myself, make small but meaningful adjustments to our precious daily lives.
